>> Steve Kinney: All right.
So what we do now,
is we're actually going
to set up our Tessel 2.
So attached to my computer right now,
I have a brandnew Tessel 2 that
I have never set up before.
We're going to set it up together.
Now tessel.io/start which will
actually resolve to this longer URL.
There are instructions for whatever your
operating system is to get up and running.
I am going to go through the Mac OS
instructions because I am using a Mac.
My suspicion is that if I try run
the Windows commands on my Mac,
it's not going to go well.
So I'm going to stick with
the Mac instructions.
But this will kind of get you through
to getting this set up either way.
The one kind of general purpose
command line tool that we're
gonna use is the Tessel 2 CLI,
which we're gonna saw globally from NPM.
One thing that I've noticed,
kind of preparing for
this is Note 10 recently came out and
installing some of the tools on
Node 10 is not fully there yet.
You can try it out if you have Xcode.
It'll actually try to compile
the modules and everything will be okay.
But if you're Node 10 and you don't have
Xcode, things can get a little weird.
So you're better off using either Node
8 or 9, and you should be totally fine.
If you have something like NVM installed,
you can switch between versions of Node.
We'll deal with that if somebody
has an issue with it, but
I suspect it was only when I cracked open
a new computer and took it for a spin.
And I put the latest and fanciest
version of Node that I had that problem.
So generally speaking,
it shouldn't really be an issue.
So we're gonna run this command.
I actually already have the command
line tool installed but
I will run it to be a good sport.
So we'll just do this npm install t2-cli.
For me, it's gonna go fairly
quickly cuz I do have it installed.
Apparently num num is no longer supported.
That's a fun fact but
it doesn't actually affect us.
So to pull it down, go ahead and
install everything.
Although, it might take
slightly longer for you.
>> Steve Kinney: Not too much longer.
So as I run to kind of explain
the next few steps is we do need
to find our Tessel, which if you don't
already have it plugged in via USB.
Now is a good time to do it,
cuz it'll be very hard for
you to define Tessel,
unless it is plugged in.
That seems obvious, but once you set
up WiFi, if you bring it home and
you're using it there, that's actually not
always true, cuz it's connected via WiFi.
But at this exact moment,
it does definitely need to be
plugged into your computer.
Cool, so
I'm gonna give everyone a minute or
two just to run that
npm install -g t2-cli.
And if everyone can just make
uncomfortable eye contact with me when
that's installed, that's how
I'll know that we're good to go.
Great, so at this point, everyone's got
the Tessel 2 command line tool installed.
Despite the fact that we
did npm install t2-cli,
all we have to do from this point forward
is type t2 from the command line.
So what we'll do is this t2 list which
will list all the devices currently
connected to our computer.
So I'll go ahead and try that out.
Searching for nearby tessels.
You can see I found one with a very
cool name right here called Tessel,
I'm not saying that out loud.
So we found the one
connected to my computer,
like your numbers will
obviously be different.
That's the unique identifier, it's about
to get a lot more unique because the next
thing we can do is rename it to
something a little bit more tolerable.
So you can name it anything you want,
their suggestion here is Bulbasaur.
When I was kind of
putting things together,
it was a great father-son bonding
experience with my 5-year-old.
I'm sorry, he's 5 and a half,
and I was like, okay,
what do you want to name it?, and so
he chose to name it RobotComputer, which
I thought was very inspired and original.
So you can name yours whatever you want.
I'm going to take his advice,
and name mine RobotComputer.
Now, let's say for instance you were
building some home automation stuff,
it could be like Tessel in the cupboard
to make sure no ones stealing my cookies,
or something like that.
That's probably a really long name.
But you could, if you had multiple
tessels, you could probably name them
something very relevant to
their purpose in your life.
But right now,
you can just name it whatever you want.
If you are struggling to come up with
a name, might I recommend RobotComputer,
or RobotComputer2, or
some combination thereof.
Johnny Five, all of these are fair and
good options.
Cool, so now we have it configured.
We have it named.
The next part is
connecting it to the WiFi.
At one point, we're not going to program
it over WiFi but at given point,
we are going to run a websurfer on it.
Spoiler alert.
It's always great when people say
spoiler alert afterwards, right?
So we do want to connect it to the WiFi.
So, and the way that works is t2 wifi, and
you give it the -n for the network name.
And that is MJGworkshop, and the password.
I hope this wasn't secret.
We're on the 36th floor,
I don't think anyone's sitting outside
the building trying to steal WiFi,
so I think we should be good.
We can try both of those.
If you find yourself wanting to use
WiFi that doesn't have a password,
that's always suspicious.
But you can just actually
not put that -p and
it will only connect to a WiFi
network without a password.
So take that for a spin.
And it's gonna look for my Tessel
which is still connected via USB.
It's connected to RobotComputer.
It's basically going to
connect it to the WiFi.
All right, very cool.
One other thing that we're
going to need later but
I'm just going to show it to you now.
Is if you just type in t2 wifi,
you'll actually get some
information about what network it's
connected to, as well as the IP address.
Which is if we want to hit
it as a web server, useful.
So that is the local IP
address of my RobotComputer
connected to my MacBook right now.
So if I spin up a web server and
I need to go visit it,
this will be where I go visit.
Yours will obviously differ slightly,
depending on your IP.
Cool, so now we've got it connected
to the WiFi, so far so good.
Is everyone feeling good?
Cool, all right, so now the other thing,
we're not gonna program it over WiFi but
we're gonna kinda go through these
steps for posterity which is if
you had a Tessel 2 and
you wanna program over WiFi.
It's probably not great if anyone
connected to your WiFi network
can go ahead and
program your Tessel 2, right?
That's probably bad.
That means somebody sitting outside your
apartment could theoretically reprogram
your hardware.
So the way this works is that your
Tessel 2 uses effectively, key pairs.
So we have a public and
a private key and you basically say,
hey, this computer is allowed
to program it over WiFi.
And the way we do that
is teach you provision.
>> Steve Kinney: And
it will go ahead and look for it and
then basically authenticate it back and
forth.
So now, go computer is setup with
your Tessel if you did need later
to program it over WiFi.
And we'll just do a t2 list.
Actually technically,
you see like two of them now.
Well you'll see more if you have
a bunch of friends in the room.
[COUGH] You'll actually see more if you
have a bunch of friends in the room.
So here are all of our Tessels.
The fun thing that we got to do together
is find out what we all named our Tessels.
All right, so we've got
RobotComputer there, we've got Fred.
Very cool, we have JabbaTheBot,
I like that one.
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Steve Kinney: Pixie dust, very cool.
And you can see effectively which one.
I can go ahead and
provision any of those as well.
Cool.
So the next thing we're gonna do just to
get us all on the same page is just update
them all with the latest firmware.
These are all new, but who knows how
long they've been sitting on a shelf.
So we'll take that first one.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah?
>> Speaker 3: So I'm connected to
my Tessel via both USB and LAN.
>> Steve Kinney: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: This firmware update,
what's it occurring over, does it choose?
>> Steve Kinney: Generally speaking,
if USB is available,
you can actually when we deploy code,
you can do --LAN or
--USB if you have like strong feelings
in which one you wanna go over.
I don't have like strong, we were
go over the USB generally speaking.
>> Steve Kinney: But for
those of you who like doing it at home,
if you want to do it over WiFi,
that's totally fair.
The only reason why we're not
doing it over WiFi is because
humans in the room together.
The humans aren't actually the problem,
it's the devices, right.
It's the, how many laptops
connected to how many tessels.
The humans actually don't
have an impact on the WiFi.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool.
So now, we have a new process that
will take at least two minutes.
I don't like, I like the confidence in
that two to four minutes earlier more
than I like these two minutes
that I'm getting now, but.
>> Speaker 4: It definitely doesn't
work with ten or something else.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, I can confirm
that it is not work with Node 10
unless you have like Xcode installed or
whole bunch of other stuff.
I didn't have Xcode installed and
hotel WiFi was not the WiFi to
download 5 gigabytes of Xcode.
>> Speaker 4: I should have that but
I might have accepted that, too.
I used NVM to go back at nine.
>> Steve Kinney: Yep.
>> Speaker 4: And
that's not working either.
>> Steve Kinney: Nine is not working?
>> Speaker 4: No.
>> Steve Kinney: Do a node -v
to make sure actually on nine.
I don't trust NVM on the first time.
>> Speaker 5: Did you reinstall t2 after
you switched to the other version?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah,
that was required for the first part.
Yeah, so that is still not working.
>> Steve Kinney: What is the error?
>> Speaker 4: There is
a whole lot of them.
Let me see if it works
with the,
>> Speaker 4: It is
just update check field user, did that.
Saying I don't have permission for
making a directory of users.
Tessel?
>> Steve Kinney: Let me take
a look at that in a second.
Seems like a file provision issue.
>> Steve Kinney: Sure,
I will send crash reports.
>> Steve Kinney: I feel like when I
hit the y, that's not what I meant but
I also wasn't looking at my screen and
had my fingers on the keyboard so
I might have hit another.
>> Speaker 5: It knew what you really-
>> Steve Kinney: It knew what I
really meant.
>> Speaker 5: Yeah.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
>> Steve Kinney: How's everyone
else's installation process going?
Everyone's a thumbs up
except our file directory.
>> Speaker 6: Mine's crashed too.
>> Speaker 4: I also crashed, yes.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
we all crashed.
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Steve Kinney: Very cool.
We're off to a wonderful start.
Did anyone not crash?
I feel like consistent
crashing would be better than,
[LAUGH] intermittent crashing.
>> Speaker 7: Mine says update complete,
but
it's still spinning on
the bottom after that.
So it says, firmware update complete.
>> Speaker 5: Updated.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
I'm at one point gonna control C,
and see how it goes,
cuz I have like worse case if
I fry one I have a second one.
The rest of you don't have that luxury, so
I will go be the sacrificial lamb,
[LAUGH] to see how it goes first.
>> Speaker 5: Looks like it
reset all the names, too.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, so just real
time followup, and so my CLI crashed.
But if I run t2 update,
I'm running the latest firmware,
so crash is a strong word.
[LAUGH] I think I can confirm that
it looks fairly safe to control C.
You might have to do
the renaming process again.
But it looks like I am on
the latest firmware version now.
Looks like that part was successful,
it's probably some clean up afterwards.
More importantly, putting together my
awesome name, which I now have to redo.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll do a t2 rename,
>> Steve Kinney: RobotComputer.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool.
So let's take a quick break while I check
on everyone and get everyone kind of like
set up cuz there's no more
actual steps once this happened.
So I'm gonna stop for a second and
see what's going on and
then once we're all ready to rock and
roll, we'll pick back up again.